#Computational Manipulation of SPD304 Inhibitor and Docking Programs

##This project generates 200 modifications to a chosen ligand SPD304 and batch docks them to a protein TNF-a in Autodock VINA GNINA for a final ranking. 

The codes and command lines written in this project are tailored to modifying SPD304 as it was the targeted inhibitor for Rheumatoid Arthritis treatment. 
However, the ligand and receptor can be changed as needed to fit other projects. 

The protein-ligand complex 2AZ5 was downloaded from the Research Collaboratory for Structural Bioinformatics Protein Data Bank (RCSB.org) and chosen because it already represents a small molecule inhibitor docked to TNF-a, which provided a known binding site. This decreased the chances of the ligand binding in the wrong pocket because TNF-a is a homotrimer so it has 3 identical subunits.  Once downloaded, the structure was loaded into ChimeraX in order to separate the ligand SPD304 from the protein/receptor. Utilizing the built in command line through ChimeraX, the ligand and protein were cleaned up after separation by removing solvents, SO4, PO4, ions, H2O residue reside; adding a charge to the receptor; and adding hydrogens to the broken ends. This removed possible obstructions that could interfere with the later docking simulation. The receptor and ligand were then run through Open Babel, a file converter, to add hydrogens at pH 7.4 and generate 3D coordinates for the ligand. The receptor was saved in .pdb format while the ligand file had to be converted into .sdf file to be compatible with GNINA. The sdf file was then loaded in Avogadro, a molecule builder and visualizer tool, to make manual modifications. A python code (Python 3.11.9) was then written in IDLE and run in Windows Powershell to try and replicate the modifications (listed as rdkit_real20.py). Once confirming these modifications worked, a python code was written to generate 10 unstructured modifications within each of 10 functional groups and 100 modifications combining all the functional groups on the indole moiety for a total of 200 ligand modifications created (listed as rdkit_real40.py). The docking simulation was then done in Autodock Vina using the GNINA 1.3.2 version. The GNINA tool was run in a Docker container running in  Windows in order to more easily manage software tools and Python language libraries. Afterwards, GNINA was run in Windows Powershell using a second python code to automatically batch dock all the variation back to the protein using Python3’s ThreadPoolExecutor. The code also ranked all 200 outputs by VINA affinity in kcal/mol and was downloaded as a csv file. Finally, the docked results were downloaded and opened in ChimeraX to see the structural differences and altered orientations. The binding affinity scores along with the CNN pose scores were recorded in a table and ranked. 
